---
layout: post
title:  "Blog 1 - Adding a new user to AZURE AD"
date:   2021-09-24 21:50:52 -0700
categories: jekyll update
---
<h1>  Intro </h1>

Let's say you're a global administrator in Azure Active Directory for a General Contractor Company. Your organization recently added a small developer team to build a new website hosted on Azure, which more than likely is SharePoint. You're also partnering with an external organization to design the website, add users, and configure licenses to those users. You've been asked to add the new users to the organization's Azure Active Directory. To make it easier for the teams to collaborate on the website, you'll create these new accounts in Azure Active Directory for the company.

<h2> Adding a new user </h2>

To add a new user, follow these steps:

1. Sign in to the Azure portal in the User Administrator role for the organization.

2. Search for and select Azure Active Directory from any page.

3. Select Users, and then select New user.

4. On the User page, enter information for this user:

5. Name is Required. The first and last name of the new user. For example, Eddy Gonzalez.

6. User name is required in the email. The user name of the new user should be followed by first initial of first name followed by last name. For example, egonzalez@itwork.com.

7. The domain part of the user name must use either the initial default domain name, <yourdomainname>.onmicrosoft.com, or a custom domain name, such as itwork.com. 

8. Groups. Optionally, you can add the user to one or more existing groups. You can also add the user to groups at a later time. These groups can have special permissions that will require to access Azure cloud based apps such as SharePoint. 

9. Directory role: If you require Azure AD administrative permissions for the user, you can add them to an Azure AD role. You can assign the user to be a Global administrator or one or more of the limited administrator roles in Azure AD. Global administrator will have access to anything within the company.

10. Job info: You can add more information about the user here, or do it later. Job title should at least be filled out. 

11. Copy the autogenerated password provided in the Password box or create a generic password. You'll need to give this password to the user to sign in for the first time.

12. Select Create.

The user is created and added to your Azure AD organization!

- You can also invite a guest user to collaborate with your organization by selecting Invite user from the New user page. If your organization's allows it, you're allowed to invite guests, the user will be emailed an invitation they must accept in order to begin collaborating. Collaboration helps when you need a second eye on configuration and settings within Azure Directory apps. 

 <h3> <b> Stay Tuned for Next Week 
- we'll show you how SharePoint works!  